--- page 0 ---

--- page 1 ---
1

第一部分：單題 (第1 - 21題，共21題)

1.	
Look at the picture.  There is 　　　 under the door.
(A) an envelope
(B) a plant
(C) a sign
(D) an umbrella

2.	
My 　　　 hurts so much that I cannot even turn my head. 
(A) arm   	
(B) knee   	
(C) neck   	
(D) stomach

3.	
Our school basketball team won the national game last night.  We are so 　　　 them.
(A) popular with	
(B) proud of	
(C) sorry for	
(D) worried about

4. 
Tomorrow is Sam’s last day in the office.  Nobody knows why he decided to 　　　 .
(A) hide 	
(B) leave	
(C) pack 	
(D) walk

5.	
It’s not a good idea to go mountain climbing in this bad 　　　 .  We should wait until the 
typhoon goes away.
(A) chance	
(B) dream	
(C) habit     	
(D) weather

6.	
Chris loves walking with Anna on snowy days, but Anna hates 　　　 very much.
(A) them 	
(B) so  	
(C) one  	
(D) it

7.	
Lora likes to eat bananas that are already a little brown on the outside, and so 　　　 I.
(A) am 	
(B) do 	
(C) have 	
(D) will

8.	
Your refrigerator shouldn’t be making loud noises now, but if it 　　　 does, just give me a 
call and I’ll come check it again.
(A) already  
(B) even  
(C) finally  
(D) still

9.	
After winning money in the card game, Jay decided to try again.  He felt that he might also 
be 　　　 a second time.
(A) famous	
(B) interested 	
(C) lucky 	
(D) ready


--- page 2 ---
2
請翻頁繼續作答

10.	 The knife doesn’t cut very well.  It’s not as 　　　 as before.
(A) bright	
(B) heavy	
(C) quick	
(D) sharp

11.	 John will stay with his sister until he 　　　 an apartment.
(A) will find 
(B) would find 
(C) finds 
(D) found

12.	 Students 　　　 to go on the school trip should ask their parents first.
(A) who want	
(B) want	
(C) who they want	
(D) what they want

13.	 The temple sits alone in the mountains at a height of 3,000m 　　　 sea level.
(A) above	
(B) at	
(C) below	
(D) in 

14.	 Patty spent several days planning to invite Charlie to dinner, 　　　 she couldn’t say a word 
when they met.
(A) but	
(B) if	
(C) or	
(D) so

15.	 I can’t tell you what I think of the movie because I 　　　 it.  I’ll probably watch it this 
Saturday.
(A) am not seeing	
(B) don’t see	
(C) haven’t seen	
(D) won’t see

16.	 The new guy at the help desk answers calls like a 　　　 .  There are no ups and downs in 
his voice and you can’t tell if he is happy or sad.
(A) father	
(B) foreigner	
(C) radio	
(D) robot

17.	 Jasmine planned to spend her summer in the country, but right after she got there, she started 
to 　　　 the noise in the city.
(A) enjoy	
(B) mind	
(C) miss	
(D) notice

18. “Bad traffic” is perhaps the 　　　 excuse for being late when your boss knows it only takes 
you five minutes to walk to work.
(A) easiest	
(B) oldest	
(C) smartest	
(D) worst

19.	 The housework in Mr. and Mrs. Wang’s family 　　　 between them and their kids.   
Everyone’s got their own job to do.
(A) is shared	
(B) are shared	
(C) shares	
(D) share

20. I want to find another dentist because 　　　 pulled out a good tooth last time I went to him.
(A) I	
(B) me	
(C) mine  	
(D) myself


--- page 3 ---
3

21. Mom: Linda, you’ve been playing computer games all evening!  Have you finished your 
 report?
	
Linda: Well, 　　　 most of it this afternoon, and I’ll finish it by Friday.
(A) I would do	
(B) I did	
(C) I was doing	
(D) I’ll do

第二部分：題組 (第22 - 43題，共22題)

(22-23)

22.	 Why did Philip go out? 
(A) To meet a woman. 
(B) To look for his father. 
(C) To ask the police for help. 
(D) To buy food for his brother. 

23.	 Why was Philip’s father angry? 
(A) He forgot his keys. 
(B) The woman was hiding from him. 
(C) The police didn’t believe what he said. 
(D) Philip and his brother went out at night. 

It was around eight o’clock on Saturday night.  Philip was at home with his little 
brother, Jason.  Jason was hungry and kept crying.  But Philip couldn’t cook and their 
father was not home yet because he was working late in the office.  So Philip decided to 
take Jason out for some food.

Half an hour later, when they came back home, Philip was surprised to find that their 
father was talking to the police and a woman outside their house.  He didn’t know who 
the woman was.  She looked scared and stood behind the police.  Philip’s father was very 
angry and kept shouting, “I didn’t do anything wrong!  I forgot my keys and was just 
trying to get into MY OWN HOUSE!”  But the police didn’t believe him until Philip ran 
to them and explained everything.

The police told Philip that the woman called 110 when she saw Philip’s father trying 
to get into a house through a window.  That was how it all happened.


--- page 4 ---
4
請翻頁繼續作答

(24-25)

24.	 Kevin is going to buy some fresh bread at Baker’s Kitchen.  He loves white bread, his mom 
likes farm bread, his father enjoys bagels, and his sister eats only challah.  Which is the 
earliest possible time for him to get all these breads for his family?
(A) 11:00am.	
(B) 4:00pm.	
(C) 5:00pm.	
(D) 7:00pm.

25.	 What do we know about Baker’s Kitchen?
(A) It is open five days a week.
(B) Its breads are half price one hour before closing.
(C) Its croissants and pretzels are sold on weekends.
(D) Its members can save $100 when they shop on Fridays.

  oven 烤爐


--- page 5 ---
5

(26-27)

26.	 What is recommended to people who want to visit the festival?
(A) Using the free festival bus service.
(B) Visiting the festival on the weekend.
(C) Entering Satyr’s Park from Fox Street.
(D) Parking in Garden Square and walking to the festival.

27.	 What can we learn about the farmers’ market from the map?
(A) The farmers’ market is next to the flower market.
(B) The farmers’ market and the festival are on the same block.
(C) You can go to the farmers’ market by taking Bus No. 157 to Puppy Street.
(D) The nearest metro station to the farmers’ market is the Koala Street Station.

  recommend  推薦


--- page 6 ---
6
請翻頁繼續作答

(28-29)

28.	 What kind of people do Yan’s and Chang’s friends most likely think 
Yan and Chang are?
(A) They enjoy good food.
(B) They don’t like to share.
(C) They like to make friends.
(D) They don’t like new things.

29.	 What is it in the second story? 
(A) A big knife.
(B) The horse.
(C) Lunch.
(D) One of Chang’s ducks or chickens.

  likely 可能

Yan lived a good life in a big house.  One day he invited a friend to dinner at his 
house.  However, on the dinner table there was only one small dish of one small fish. 

The friend looked quietly at the fish.  It was no bigger than a finger. 

Then he asked Yan if he could borrow a lamp.

“What for?” Yan asked.
“Well, it’s so dark in here,” the friend said with a dry smile, 
“I can’t see the other delicious dishes you’ve prepared for me.” 

Chang kept a lot of ducks and chickens on his farm.  One day, his best friend 
came to visit him.  At noon, Chang told his friend that he couldn’t let him stay for lunch 
because there wasn’t much food to eat.  The friend looked out at Chang’s farm animals 
for a moment.  Then he asked Chang if he had a big knife.  

“Yes, but what for?” Chang asked.
“I’m thinking about killing the horse I rode here so we’ll 
have something for lunch,” the friend said.

“But how are you going to go home without it?”
“Well, you wouldn’t mind lending me one of your many 
ducks or chickens so I can ride it home, would you?”


--- page 7 ---
7

(30-32)

Usually, people visit bookstores to buy books.  But those who walk 
into Cotoha come to see its owner, Chen Bing-Hong.  They bring him 
books with different problems.  Some have lost their covers, some are 
missing a few pages, and some have pages that are falling out.  Chen can 
always fix the books and make them whole again.

Chen sees himself as a doctor.  He says that books, like people, get 
sick and need help.  In Taiwan, there are not many “doctors” like him, 
and most of them work for big libraries and museums.  If big libraries and 
museums are hospitals, Chen’s bookstore is a health center.  Big libraries 
and museums fix important old books with serious problems, and Chen 
helps people with books that have smaller problems.  However, the smaller 
size of the problems doesn’t mean Chen’s job is less important.

 Chen gave an example of a science book he once worked on.  It was 
very old and half of its cover was lost.  Its owner still wanted to keep it 
because it was a gift from a teacher who helped him follow his dream of 
studying science.  When he got his book back, he was very surprised at the 
new-old book.  He felt he was brought back to the days with his teacher. 
Seeing the owner’s smile made Chen happy, because smiles like that are 
what his magic is for.


--- page 8 ---
8
請翻頁繼續作答

30.	 Why does the writer talk about doctors and a health center in the reading?
(A) To explain Chen’s services.
(B) To talk about Chen’s future plans.
(C) To explain Chen’s love for books.
(D) To show why bookstores are important.

31.	 Why is Chen Bing-Hong’s job important in the example he gave?
(A) It allows people to get books as gifts.
(B) It saves people money on new books.
(C) It gives people hope to follow their dreams.
(D) It helps people think of special moments in the past.

32.	 What is his magic? 
(A) Fixing books. 
(B) Making book owners smile. 
(C) Finding books that are long lost. 
(D) Changing his bookstore into a library. 


--- page 9 ---
9

(33-35)

33.	 According to the reading, why did Rohla and Kreytenberg open Habibi & Hawara?
(A) To help refugees live better in Austria.
(B) To collect money to help Syria fight the war.
(C) To help Austrians learn about the war in Syria.
(D) To help refugees go back to their home countries.

 A Delicious Surprise and Welcome Change
 A Delicious Surprise and Welcome Change 
  By Karl Falk, June 1, 2016

In Austria, there are not many restaurants like Habibi 
& Hawara.  Here you can enjoy Austrian and Syrian 
food together.  Two Austrians, Martin Rohla and 
David Kreytenberg, started this yummy plan from 
their experience of working with refugees.

Every year, thousands of people have to leave 
their homes and families because of war in their 
countries.  So many of them go to Austria that some 
people in the country think they have become a problem.  They are afraid refugees 
may take away their jobs and they don’t feel safe around them, either.  But Rohla 
and Kreytenberg would beg to differ: The refugees don’t have to be a problem. 
They want to help them start a new life.  They invited refugees to meetings and 
found that some of them were cooks back in Syria.  So the idea of Habibi & Hawara 
was born—a restaurant that brings together Austrian and Syrian food.  “The two 
worlds far away from each other meet together,” Kreytenberg said.

But Rohla and Kreytenberg want to do more than just give the refugees work.  They 
want their best workers to buy the restaurant in the end.  They hope that Habibi & 
Hawara is not just a one-time plan and that other Austrians will join them and help 
more refugees.

  refugee 難民　war 戰爭


--- page 10 ---
10
請翻頁繼續作答

34.	 What can we learn about Habibi & Hawara?
(A) It was moved from Syria to Austria.
(B) It may finally be sold to its workers.
(C) It has cooking classes in Syrian food.
(D) It is an important meeting place for Syrians.

35.	 What does it mean when people beg to differ?
(A) They do not agree.
(B) They look different.
(C) They cannot speak for others.
(D) They do not notice something.


--- page 11 ---
11

(36-39)

If you want to learn about bringing back extinct animals, reading 
John Smith’s Back from the Dead is a good start.  But I have to say 
I can’t agree with everything he says. 

From his book, I can see Smith is an advocate of bringing extinct animals back.  He 
says we have lost many animals because we made their living spaces too dirty.  He also 
thinks we must do everything we can to bring them back.  However, I don’t know how 
much time and money we would need to make the world a better place for them, and 
honestly no one knows if they could actually come back.  

Smith also says that bringing back extinct animals may be good for us.  He talks about 
an extinct frog that grew tadpoles in its stomach.  Some women’s babies die before they 
are born, and Smith believes bringing back the frog may be an answer to the problem. 
According to him, by studying how the tadpoles grow inside the frog’s stomach, we 
might be able to find new ways to help these women successfully keep their babies.  But 
I don’t think things are as easy as Smith thinks.  We have spent ten years and millions 
of dollars on this kind of frog, but all we have got are only a few dead frog eggs.  If we 
can’t see a real frog, how can we be sure women will get the help they need?

Dr. Solomon Wang from the Animal Saving Office says the study of bringing back 
extinct animals is “throwing good money after bad.”  And he’s right.  A lot of hard work 
has been put into this expensive dream, but we haven’t seen anything come out of it. 
So should we still keep going down this road?

  extinct 絕種的　tadpole 蝌蚪

VOICES OF PEOPLE

Ellen Zimmer


--- page 12 ---
12
請翻頁繼續作答

36.	 What does it mean when someone is an advocate of something? 
(A) They talk a lot but do little about it. 
(B) They believe it is good and should be done. 
(C) They have had some bad experiences with it. 
(D) They are one of the first people who have done it. 

37.	 What is special about the extinct frog in Smith’s book? 
(A) It can live in a dirty living space. 
(B) It might help fix a health problem. 
(C) It eats its babies when it cannot find food. 
(D) It is the first extinct animal that people studied. 

38.	 Why does Ellen Zimmer use the words from Dr. Solomon Wang?
(A) To start a new topic.
(B) To share a big dream.
(C) To make her idea clearer.
(D) To invite people to take action.

39.	 What does Ellen Zimmer most likely think about bringing back extinct animals?
(A) It is possible.
(B) It is dangerous.
(C) It is not possible.
(D) It is not dangerous.

  likely 可能


--- page 13 ---
13

(40-43)

A HISTORY LESSON ON THE PANDEMIC	
2020.10.29

	
Since the Covid-19 pandemic started, people have begun “social distancing”—
keeping a safe space between you and anyone you don’t live with.  Though it 
has been a very popular topic this year, social distancing     40     .  In fact, it was 
widely used in the U.S. in the flu pandemic in 1918.  But how well did it work?  The 
Americans’ experience can tell us whether it really saved lives. 


--- page 14 ---
14
試題結束

40.	 (A) is not a new idea 
(B) has not been very useful 
(C) may bring some problems 
(D) is not welcomed by everyone

41.	 (A) Portland 
(B) New York 
(C) Denver 
(D) Pittsburgh 

42.	 (A) had higher numbers of deaths 
(B) stopped social distancing too soon 
(C) began social distancing a second time 
(D) had the most days of social distancing 

43.	 (A) Also 
(B) At first 
(C) However 
(D) For example 

	
From the picture, we can see that    41    started social distancing earlier than 
the other three cities.  This helped the city keep the number of deaths down.  Besides 
taking early action, keeping the action long enough was also important in fighting 
the pandemic.  The picture shows that Portland and Denver did well in the first few 
weeks.  However, both cities    42    , and the numbers of deaths climbed again.

	
But there was one thing Portland did right.  The city used several ways of social 
distancing at the same time to deal with the pandemic.     43    , sick people were kept 
away from healthy ones; schools were closed; public activities were not allowed.  All 
these were useful in keeping people safe.   

	
The lessons of the 1918 pandemic bring us hope.  While we are still learning to 
fight Covid-19, social distancing may be the best way to get us through the dark days, 
at least for now.

  pandemic （疾病的）大流行　per 每(一)


