--- page 0 ---
請考生依指示
填寫准考證末兩碼 

請聽到鐘聲響起，於試題本右上角方
格內填寫准考證末兩碼，再翻頁作答

英語科閱讀試題本
109年國中教育會考

請不要翻到次頁！
讀完本頁的說明，聽從監試委員的指示才開始作答！
※請先確認你的答案卡、准考證與座位號碼是否一致無誤。

測驗說明：

這是國中教育會考英語科閱讀試題本，試題本採雙面印刷，共 13 頁，有 
41 題選擇題，每題都只有一個正確或最佳的答案。測驗時間從 10：30 到 
11：30，共 60 分鐘。作答開始與結束請聽從監試委員的指示。
注意事項：

1. 所有試題均為四選一的選擇題，答錯不倒扣。
2. 試題本分為單題和題組兩部分。
3. 部分試題中的單字或片語加註中文，以利參考。
4. 依試場規則規定，答案卡上不得書寫姓名座號，也不得作任何標記。
故意汙損答案卡、損壞試題本，或在答案卡上顯示自己身分者，該科
考試不予計列等級。
作答方式：

請依照題意從四個選項中選出一個正確或最佳的答案，並用 2B 鉛筆在答案
卡上相應的位置畫記，請務必將選項塗黑、塗滿。如果需要修改答案，請
使用橡皮擦擦拭乾淨，重新塗黑答案。例如答案為 B，則將    選項塗黑、
塗滿，即：
 
 
 

以下為錯誤的畫記方式，可能導致電腦無法正確判讀。如：

 
 
 
 —未將選項塗滿
 
 
 
 —未將選項塗黑
 
 
 
 —未擦拭乾淨
 
 
 
 —塗出選項外
 
 
 
 —同時塗兩個選項

請閱讀以下測驗作答說明：


--- page 1 ---
1
請翻頁繼續作答

第一部分: 單題 (第1-15題，共15題)

1.	
Look at the picture.  The man is holding one of the _____. 
(A) bowls
(B) glasses
(C) plates
(D) spoons

2.	
My mom puts the _____ on to keep her hands away from water when she washes
the dishes.
(A) gloves    	
(B) jacket     	
(C) ring   	
(D) socks

3. 
Can you _____ your feet a little off the floor?  I want to see if my keys are under the 
sofa.
(A) check	
(B) kick	
(C) raise 	
(D) show
   
4. 
_____ of my sisters are older than I am.  I’m the youngest of the three children in my 
family.    
(A) Both	
(B) Few	
(C) Most	
(D) Some

5.	
The beach near our town is a very _____ place.  Every summer at least one kid dies 
there in the water. 
(A) dangerous 	
(B) exciting 	
(C) lonely 	
(D) popular 

6. 
My wife enjoys going to the movies with her friends, but I like to watch TV at home 
by _____.
(A) I 
(B) me 
(C) myself 
(D) mine

7. 
For the past twenty years, my father _____ in a school library.  But he’ll leave the job 
next month.
(A) worked      	
(B) has worked        	(C) is working 	
(D) works

8. 
It’s great that we can buy train tickets over the phone without going out.  It _____ us 
a lot of time.
(A) lends	
(B) prepares	
(C) saves	
(D) takes

9. 
Mozart _____ his first music when he was only six years old.
(A) is writing   	
(B) has written	
(C) will write	
 (D) wrote


--- page 2 ---
2

10.	 Jill: Have you decided _____ you will celebrate your 30th birthday? 
Sue: Yeah, I’m going to have a big barbecue party.
(A) how  	
(B) where  	
(C) what  	
(D) when

11. Alison doesn’t like _____ what to do.  She only does things she wants to do.
(A) told	
(B) to tell	
(C) be told	
(D) to be told

12.	 Josh has planned to make a trip to New York and _____ some of his friends there.
(A) visit	
(B) visits	
(C) visiting	
(D) visited

13. Ms. Johnson has been taking phone calls since she entered the office this morning.  
Just when she thought she could finally leave work, _____ call came in.
(A) another   	
(B) each          	
(C) the next           	 (D) the other       

14. We were so sure that Jerry _____ well on the difficult job.  His past experience in 
other work showed he was the right guy for it.  So when he failed, no one believed it.
(A) had done 	
(B) did	
(C) has done	
(D) would do

15.	 For Mike, the price is _____ important thing when he shops for jeans.  He cares even 
more about the shape and the size of the pockets. 
(A) the more 	
(B) the most 	
(C) the less 	
(D) the least 


--- page 3 ---
3
請翻頁繼續作答

第二部分: 題組 (第16-41題，共26題)

(16-17)

When it arrives,
Everyone cheers.
The shirts and shorts dance
On the clothesline,
The trees and flowers wave
Like they’re saying hi,
And the clouds are so excited
To have a running race.

When it comes,
Dad’s face falls.
His coat and jeans jump
Off the clothesline
Into the pond.
The tree leaves hop off
And have a party on his new car.

When it gets here,
A lot of fun things I notice:
The pond’s face,
Sad and old with lines;
Mrs. Smith’s bread,
Delicious and freshly baked.
But what smell is it?
Oh, no, it’s from Mr. Brown’s feet!

16.	 What is it in the reading?
(A) The sun.	
(B) The rain.	
(C) The wind.	
(D) The rainbow.

17.	 How does Dad feel“when it comes”?
(A) He is scared.
(B) He is excited.
(C) He is not happy.
(D) He is not interested.  

 leaf (leaves) 葉子


--- page 4 ---
4

(18-19)

18. What can we learn about Buffy’s friends?
(A) Matt has experience of yard sales.
(B) Jamie had a successful yard sale last week.
(C) Albert thinks weather is important for yard sales.
(D) Debby thinks things are cheaper online than at yard sales.

19. What do Buffy’s friends think about having a yard sale?
(A) Albert and Matt think it’s a nice way to make friends.
(B) Debby and Albert think it’s difficult to make money from it.
(C) Matt agrees with Jamie that it’s a good chance to help people.
(D) Jamie agrees with Debby that it’s a lot of trouble to prepare for it.

Hey, guys!  I have a lot of things I don’t need, so I’m
thinking about having a yard sale.  What do you think?

Having a yard sale is not easy.  You have to collect things, put 
prices on them, put them out on tables and then wait for people 
to come.  And usually you have to sell things at VERY low prices. 
For all that time and work, you make very little money.  Why not 
just sell your things online for higher prices?

Debby’s right.  But I think it’d be even better to just give your 
things to people who need them.  I just sent out a lot of things 
last week.

Hey, I love yard sales!  It’s a great chance to make big money if 
you pick the right day.  In my experience, Saturday is the best.

I agree with Albert.  You can make money and meet interesting 
people.  I made some good friends at my last yard sale.


--- page 5 ---
5
請翻頁繼續作答

(20-21)

   Here is an ad for Sunny Market.  

20. From the ad, which is true about Sunny Sun pictures?
(A) The first day to use Sunny Sun pictures is Feb. 4.
(B) The last day to collect Sunny Sun pictures is Feb. 10.
(C) You cannot use Sunny Sun pictures to get free desserts.
(D) You cannot get Sunny Sun pictures when you buy books.

21. Sammy has 7 Sunny Sun pictures.  She wants to get a Sunny Cup.  How can she get one?
(A) Use 6 Sunny Sun pictures and pay $100. 
(B) Use 6 Sunny Sun pictures and pay $200. 
(C) Spend $150 to get 3 more Sunny Sun pictures. 
(D) Spend $200 to get 4 more Sunny Sun pictures. 

 
From Jan. 4 to Feb. 4, for each $50 you spend 
(on anything EXCEPT books and CDs) at Sunny 

Market, you’ll get a Sunny Sun picture 
 . 
(2 pictures for every $100, 3 pictures for every 
$150, …) 

★  Collect 12 pictures, and you can get a Sunny 
       Cup for free!  
 
★  Collect 10 pictures, and you can get any of 
        the desserts on the right for free!

★  Collect 6 pictures, and you can buy a Sunny 
       Cup for $200, or any of the desserts on the 
       right for $100!

From Jan. 4 to Feb. 10, you can use Sunny 
       Sun pictures to get Sunny Cups or desserts.

With Sunny Sun pictures, you 
can get one of the prizes below 
for free or at low prices!!

  
 Sunny Cup      
 Chocolate
                    

  
 Fruitcake        
 Ice cream


--- page 6 ---
6

(22-24)

22.	 From the reading, which picture best shows the “bain-marie” way of working with 
chocolate?
(A)                        (B)                          (C)	                                (D)

23.	 What does them mean in the reading?
(A) Bains-marie.  	
                     	
(B) Butter and sugar.
(C) Chocolate desserts.  	
(D) Small pieces of chocolate.

24. From the reading, which is true about working with chocolate?
(A) It is better to use a “bain-marie” than a “water bath.”
(B) The water in the pot should not be warmer than 50ºC.
(C) It is better to finish mixing it in less than five minutes. 
(D) We should not mix butter and sugar together at the same time.

 mix 混合

Now I’m going to show you how to work with chocolate.  I’ll 
do it in a “bain-marie,” or, well, some people call it “water bath.” 
 I myself love the name “bain-marie.”  To make a “bain-marie,” 
you need two pots, one bigger than the other.  

First, break the chocolate into small pieces and put them in the 
smaller pot.  Usually when making chocolate desserts, you’ll need to
mix chocolate with butter and sugar.  So if you do, put them in the
pot too. 

Now, half fill the bigger pot with warm water.  Put the smaller 
pot over the bigger one, and start to slowly mix the chocolate, the butter, and
the sugar together.  Keep the water under 50ºC, or the chocolate may lose its
shine.  And make sure that no water goes in the smaller pot, or the chocolate will
become hard and cannot be used. 

Keep mixing for about five to ten minutes, and the job is done.  Easy, right?


--- page 7 ---
7
請翻頁繼續作答

(25-27)

25. What does the news story say about the Yangs’ food truck? 
(A) What people love about their food. 
(B) What made them start their business. 
(C) How they made delicious fried chicken. 
(D) How they fixed their business problems. 

26.	 What does it mean when business is slack? 
(A) It is bad. 
(B) It is for sale. 
(C) It is growing. 
(D) It is open every day. 

27.	 What does that mean in the news story?  
(A) A Taiwanese restaurant. 
(B) A second Taiwanese food truck.
(C) A city block that sells Taiwanese food.
(D) A business that is popular across the country.

                                                                                             
Taiwanese Bian-dang in Manhattan, New York City
5/30/ 2014     by Eva Schmidt
	

During lunch time, on 53rd Street, you’ll see 
a long line of people in front of a Taiwanese food 
truck for their “bian-dang,” a Taiwanese word for 
“lunch box.”  On the menu you can find fried chicken with rice, pork dumplings, 
tea eggs, and other popular Taiwanese dishes. 

The owners of the food truck are Thomas and Diana Yang, two 
Taiwanese-Americans.  This brother-sister team started their business in 2009. 
Back then, there were a few Taiwanese restaurants in the city and several thousand 
food trucks, but the Yangs were the first to sell Taiwanese food on a food truck.

At first, business was slack.  People thought they were just another Chinese food 
truck, and the food truck’s name, “Cravings,” often made people think of desserts, not 
lunch.  Few people would stop by and try their food.  “I couldn’t even give away free 
food,” said Thomas.  To catch people’s eye, they painted their truck blue, and drew 
Taiwan’s national flower, the plum blossom, on it.  They also changed the food truck’s 
name to “bian-dang.”  Soon people started to notice them, and business finally got 
better.  Now on a good day, they can sell about 150 bian-dangs in about two hours.

So what’s next for Thomas and Diana?  Well, they hope one day there will be a 
block with Taiwanese food in the city, just like there is a Chinatown, a Korea Town, 
and a Little Italy.  And their bian-dang food truck might just help to make that happen.

 national 國家的


--- page 8 ---
8

(28-30)

   This is a letter by Selena Bieber to the students in her school.

28. What problem is Selena Bieber trying to fix? 
(A) High school lessons are too difficult. 
(B) Classes start too early in the morning. 
(C) Too many students are late for school. 
(D) Lunch break is too short for taking a rest. 

29. What can we learn from the letter? 
(A) Too much melatonin can hurt teenagers’ brain. 
(B) The brain stops making melatonin after 11 p.m. 
(C) Sleeping longer helps the body make more melatonin. 
(D) It is easier to fall asleep when the brain is making melatonin. 

 brain 大腦  hormone 荷爾蒙

http://www.nvhsstudsup.org/openletter

Later Is Better!

Selena Bieber
Northville High School

Do you feel it’s hard to get up early for school and even harder to listen 
well in the first class at 8 a.m.?  Well, this happens to most of us and is 
not helpful for our learning!

Some studies show that teenagers’ brains make melatonin, the hormone that 
helps sleep, between 11 p.m. and 8 a.m.  So it’s better for us to sleep during 
these nine hours.  But here comes the problem.  We’re asked to get to school 
by 7:30 a.m.  That means we have to get up before 7, when our brains 
should still be sleeping.  That’s why we’re always so tired and can’t think 
clearly in early morning classes.  No clear head, no good learning, right?

If we can’t change how our body works, why can’t school start later?  In 
this way, we can not only sleep more but also learn better!

Want to help us make it happen?  
Visit www.nvhsstudsup.org/later-better to learn more.


--- page 9 ---
9
請翻頁繼續作答

30.	 Below is some information from another study. 

Do the ideas in Selena Bieber’s letter agree with the information?
(A) Yes, because her letter says it is better to sleep from 11 p.m. to 8 a.m.
(B) Yes, because her letter says getting up early is not helpful for learning.
(C) No, because her letter says students are asked to get to school by 7:30 a.m.
(D) No, because her letter says teenagers’ brains do not work well in early morning classes. 

We studied 48 high school students and found that the students who went 
to bed earlier did better on their school tests.  This is not only true for 
those who slept nine hours, but also true for those who slept less.  And 
some of them agreed that they learned better in early morning classes.


--- page 10 ---
10

(31-34)

31. What can we learn about Kivalina? 
(A) It is waiting to shine. 
(B) It has become history. 
(C) It is fighting for one last hope. 
(D) It has given up its chance to rise. 

 melt 融化  hunt 打獵  company 公司

Kivalina, an island village in Alaska, USA, 
is known by only a few people.  It cannot be 
found on most maps of Alaska because it is 
only 10 km2.  This small Arctic village is home 
to 400 Inuit people*.  However, their home 
will become uninhabitable because the 
island could be covered by the Chukchi 
Sea by 2025.  These Inuit people will have to leave their home. 

	 But life now is already difficult.  Over the past twenty years, winters have 
become warmer, the Arctic ice has kept melting, and the sea has been rising. 
These changes have made it harder to live by hunting and fishing than before. 
What’s worse, there is no Arctic ice thick enough to keep them safe from terrible 
wind and rain.                 

	 These Inuit people think it is the oil and power companies in Alaska that 
have brought all these troubles, but they are the ones who are paying the price. 
It would cost hundreds of millions to move their village, and they have no idea 
where to get the money.  Groups like ReLocate are working together with the 
Inuit people to save Kivalina, but nobody is sure if their hard work will come to 
anything.  All the Inuit people can do now is to pray the rising sea will not cover 
their home too soon.

* The Inuit people are a group of people who live in the Arctic.


--- page 11 ---
11
請翻頁繼續作答

32.	 What does it mean when we say a place is uninhabitable?   
(A) It is not big. 
(B) It is not popular. 
(C) It cannot be bought. 
(D) It cannot be lived in. 

33. What does the writer think about the Inuit people in Kivalina?  
(A) Their way of living has been hurting the earth. 
(B) They might not be able to get enough money to move their village.
(C) They should make the oil and power companies fix their problems.
(D) There are better ways than to move their village to somewhere else.

34. What does the reading say about the Arctic ice?      
(A) The Arctic ice covered 10 km2 of Kivalina. 
(B) The melting Arctic ice kills about 400 Inuit people each year.
(C) The Arctic ice helped the Inuit people in Kivalina during bad weather.  
(D) The melting Arctic ice has given the Inuit people enough water to use. 
 


--- page 12 ---
12

(35-37)

35.	 (A) what else you can do 	
	
	
(B) how you can enjoy it more
(C) how it will change your life 	
	
	
(D) what is the best way of commute for you 

36.	 (A) costs you money 
(B) hurts your health 
(C) makes traffic terrible 
(D) kills the planet slowly 

37. (A) And that’s why 
(B) But that’s not all 
(C) And here’s an example 
(D) But that can be stopped 

After a lot of tests and interviews, you finally got into a good school or got a good 
job.  But there’s a problem: it’s a long way from home.  “Well, I can take the bus or 
drive,” you might think.  But before you decide whether it’s OK to have such a long 
commute, it’s best to know    35  .  

Having a long commute means you’ll get fewer hours of sleep, and that’ll make 
you feel tired easily.  You’ll also have less time for friends and family, for exercise, or 
for a nice meal.  

A long commute not only eats up your time but also   36  .  Studies show that 
people who have a long commute get fat easily and often have neck or back problems. 
It’s easier for them to have heart problems too.     37  .  Studies find that these people 
get angry more often, feel less happy with their lives, and do less well at work.  

Now, does that good school or that good job still sound good to you?  

 interview 面試  commute 通勤


--- page 13 ---
13
試題結束

(38-41)

38.	 (A) this is surely a surprise 
(B) this sounds like a good idea 
(C) this is perhaps a smart answer 
(D) this is old news they have heard 

39.	 (A) had given hopes 
(B) are a different story 
(C) bring a bright future 
(D) have been a great plan 

40.	 (A) this will not go away; it will stay 
(B) they are not just saying it; they are going to do it 
(C) they do not speak for others; they only speak for themselves 
(D) this is not a guess; it is a lesson they learned from hard experience 

41. (A) In fact 
 
(B) If so 
 
(C) However  
(D) Finally 

 host 舉辦  Olympics 奧運  visitor 遊客

People in the city of Munich have spoken their mind: they do not 
want to host the Winter Olympics in 2022.  To the cities that fight for this 
chance,   38  .  The Olympics usually do a lot of good to the host city.  The 
Games bring in jobs, visitors, and, most important of all, money.  So why 
did people in Munich say no?

The Olympics   39   for people in Munich.  For them, the world’s 
biggest sports festival could invite serious trouble.  There would be a lot of 
building work before the Games, and during the Games, too much traffic 
and too many visitors.  Life would become terrible and nature would be 
hurt.  And   40  : Munich hosted the 1972 Summer Olympics, and its 
neighbor, the mountain town Garmisch-Partenkirchen, hosted the 1936 
Winter Olympics.  

Still, the heavy price Munich paid does not worry the cities that are 
in the race to get the 2022 Winter Olympics.     41  , they are happy that 
Munich said no to the Olympics—their chances of getting the Games have 
become higher.

11/11/2013
NOlympics in Munich


