--- page 0 ---
請考生依指示
填寫准考證末兩碼


請聽到鐘聲響起，於試題本右上角方
格內填寫准考證末兩碼，再翻頁作答

英語科閱讀試題本
111年國中教育會考

請不要翻到次頁！
請不要翻到次頁！
讀完本頁的說明，聽從監試委員的指示才開始作答！
讀完本頁的說明，聽從監試委員的指示才開始作答！
※請先確認你的答案卡、准考證與座位號碼是否一致無誤。

測驗說明：

這是國中教育會考英語科閱讀試題本，試題本採雙面印刷，共 13 頁，有 
43 題選擇題，每題都只有一個正確或最佳的答案。測驗時間從 10：30 到 
11：30，共 60 分鐘。作答開始與結束請聽從監試委員的指示。
注意事項：

1. 所有試題均為四選一的選擇題，答錯不倒扣。

2. 試題本分為單題和題組兩部分。

3. 部分試題中的單字或片語加註中文，以利參考。

4. 依試場規則規定，答案卡上不得書寫姓名座號，也不得作任何標記。
故意汙損答案卡、損壞試題本，或在答案卡上顯示自己身分者，該科
考試不予計列等級。
作答方式：

請依照題意從四個選項中選出一個正確或最佳的答案，並用 2B 鉛筆在答案
卡上相應的位置畫記，請務必將選項塗黑、塗滿。如果需要修改答案，請
使用橡皮擦擦拭乾淨，重新塗黑答案。例如答案為 B，則將    選項塗黑、
塗滿，即：
 
 
 

以下為錯誤的畫記方式，可能導致電腦無法正確判讀。如：

 
 
 
 —未將選項塗滿
 
 
 
 —未將選項塗黑
 
 
 
 —未擦拭乾淨
 
 
 
 —塗出選項外
 
 
 
 —同時塗兩個選項

請閱讀以下測驗作答說明：


--- page 1 ---
1
請翻頁繼續作答

第一部分：單題 (第1-20題，共20題)

1.	
Look at the picture.  The woman is putting            on the 
cake.
(A) candles
(B) forks
(C) plates
(D) strawberries

2.	
The movie starts at two o’clock,            let’s meet at the theater at one forty-five.
(A) so	
(B) or	
(C) if	
(D) because

3.	
Peter is afraid of the dark.  He even leaves the            on when sleeping.
(A) computer	
(B) fans	
(C) lights	
(D) music 

4.	
Pam is a            baseball player; she has more fans than any other player on her team.
(A) boring	
(B) heavy	
(C) popular	
(D) rich 

5.	
I did not do my homework, so my teacher said I            stay after school to finish it.
(A) failed to	
(B) had to	
(C) hoped to	
(D) used to

6.	
Kevin has only enough money for the bag or the shoes.  That is a hard            to 

make because he likes them both.
(A) choice	
(B) gift	
(C) rule	
(D) trick 

7.	
It was            for us to answer the math question because we’ve done the same kind 
of questions many times.
(A) common	
(B) easy	
(C) safe	
(D) special

8.	
Although it took me lots of time            a big meal for ten people, I was happy that 

everyone enjoyed it.
(A) prepare	
(B) to prepare	
(C) preparing	
(D) prepared

9.	
Don’t let the children swim in the river.  We don’t know how            it is.  It could be 
dangerous.
(A) deep	
(B) far	
(C) long	
(D) thick 

10.	 Bob is            of the boys in the family.  He never does any housework.  His brothers 

at least take out the garbage sometimes.
(A) lazier	
(B) the lazy	
(C) the lazier 	
(D) the laziest

11.	 Aunt Gina has lived in this town for more than sixty years, so she            it very well.
(A) will know	
(B) knew	
(C) knows	
(D) was going to know


--- page 2 ---
2

12.	 We won’t see the sun even after the typhoon leaves, because the news said that 

heavier rain will soon           .
(A) catch	
(B) follow	
(C) move	
(D) stop 

13.	 Yesterday when I got home from work, my brother            for dinner, so he invited me 

to join him.
(A) goes out	
(B) went out	
(C) has gone out	
(D) was going out 

14.	 You were            not to lend Amy money.  She never gives back what she borrows.
(A) crazy  	
(B) helpful  	
(C) wise  	
(D) wrong

15.	 Have you found a summer job yet?  Mr. Firth            someone to take care of his kids 
during the vacation.  Maybe you can talk to him.
(A) has looked for	 (B) is looking for	
(C) looks for	
(D) was looking for

16.	 David looked out of the balcony window and saw a woman get in his car            away.
(A) drive 	
(B) drove 	
(C) and drive 	
(D) and drove 

17.	 The police haven’t found the little girl who            at a supermarket.  They’ll keep 

doing all they can to find her.
(A) took away	
(B) taken away 	
(C) has taken away	 (D) was taken away

18.	 Buses to the airport only come once every hour, and we just missed           .  Why don’t 

we take a taxi?
(A) another 	
(B) it 	
(C) one	
(D) them

19.	 Ariel            every night for a week before her Chinese test and got a very good grade.
(A) studied	
(B) studies	
(C) has studied	
(D) was going to study

20.	 While reading this story, Brad saw the word “trolling” and didn’t know what it meant.

	
He found several meanings of the word in a dictionary.  Which one should Brad 

choose?
(A) To celebrate in song.
(B) To make someone or something move around.
(C) To pull a fishing line through the water, often from a boat.
(D) To write something on the Internet to hurt someone or make them angry.

Josh turned off the screen and sat back.  “Why are they trolling me like this?”  He didn’t 

understand.  They wanted him to share what he thought about the show, and he did. 

And now look what he got.  In the end, all they wanted was nice words. 


--- page 3 ---
3
請翻頁繼續作答

第二部分：題組 (第21-43題，共23題)

(21-22) 

21.	 What does Tea-Rock celebrate?
(A) Their sales in 20 countries.	       (B) The coming out of their 20th kind of tea.
(C) Their 20th year of business.	
(D) The opening of their 20th store in the USA.

22.	 Here is the postcard Jason is going to send to Tea-Rock 20.  What else does he need to 

put on the postcard before he sends it?
(A) His age.
(B) His address.
(C) His birthday.
(D) Another picture of the tea cup.

 address 地址


--- page 4 ---
4

(23-24)

Below is an infographic.

 infographic 資訊圖表


--- page 5 ---
5
請翻頁繼續作答

23.	 What can we learn about sugar from the infographic? 
(A) There are 4 g of sugar in 66 g of ice cream.
(B) A woman can eat as much sugar a day as a man can.
(C) Taiwan eats more sugar for each person than the US does.
(D) 400 ml of rice milk has less sugar than 400 ml of grape juice.

24.	 What can be a reason why the list of “Sugar that is hidden in foods and drinks” 

is put in the infographic?
(A) To help us understand how sugar hurts our body.
(B) To show what kinds of foods and drinks are popular with children.
(C) To tell us that we often have more sugar than we can without knowing it.
(D) To let us know how much sugar is enough to make foods and drinks taste good.


--- page 6 ---
6

(25-26)

25.	 Why did Darrell tell Marina to go to Pinterest? 
(A) To find some examples for her homework.
(B) To shop for things that are needed for art classes.
(C) To meet new friends who have the same interests.
(D) To share her works and tell people how they are made.

26.	 What does it mean when you learn something from A to Z? 
(A) You can learn it at any time.
(B) You learn it in a baking class.
(C) You learn everything about it.
(D) You spend all your life learning it.

Darrell	: Marina…Marina…MARINA! 
Marina	: Oh, sorry.  I didn’t hear you.  I was thinking about my homework.
Darrell	: What’s it about?
Marina	: Well, I need to draw a future house for my art class, but I haven’t got any 

ideas.  Maybe I should go to the library and look for something useful.
Darrell	: Or you can try Pinterest. 
Marina	: Isn’t it a shopping app?
Darrell	: Not really.  Many people share their works on Pinterest and tell you how 

they made them.  I’m sure you can get some ideas there.
Marina	: Sounds like you use it often.
Darrell	: Yeah.  Just last week I went there and found the A to Z of making 


chocolate cake—from choosing good chocolate to baking the cake to making 
sugar flowers on top.
Marina	: Really?  I’ll check it out later.  Thanks a lot.


--- page 7 ---
7
請翻頁繼續作答

(27-29) 

27.	 Which idea is talked about in the first paragraph of the reading?
(A) How you should do Tabata training.
(B) What is the best time for Tabata training.
(C) Who first had the idea of Tabata training.
(D) How often you should do Tabata training.

28.	 Who might find that Tabata training is right for them?
(A) People who enjoy team sports.
(B) People who want to start exercising.
(C) People who want to fix their heart problems.
(D) People who already have a habit of exercising.

29.	 Which is true about Tabata training?
(A) It is difficult to learn the moves.
(B) You are free to choose your own moves.
(C) You need a large space to do the exercises.
(D) You cannot rest between moves if you want the afterburn.

Tabata training is a very popular way of exercising these days.  It doesn’t take 
much time or space, and it burns calories faster than other ways of exercising. 

The idea of Tabata training is simple: exercise for 20 seconds, rest for 10 seconds, 
and then repeat (at least eight times).  The moves for the 20-second exercise are not 
difficult to learn.  Jumping jacks, high knees, squats, and planks are some of the most 
common moves.  You can decide yourself what moves to do in your Tabata training. 
For example, you can do more leg exercises if you want strong legs. 

One great thing about Tabata training is that your body will keep burning 
calories for at least an hour after 4 minutes of Tabata training.  But to have this 
wonderful “afterburn,” you need to exercise really hard during each 20 seconds. 
If you seldom exercise or have heart problems, this exercise may not be good for 
you.  But for people who enjoy exercising but are too busy to go to the gym, Tabata 
training might just be the answer.

 calorie 卡路里(熱量單位)

 paragraph 段落


--- page 8 ---
8

(30-32) 

The problem of long working hours is a real headache in our country. It 
kills many people every year (see Figure 1), and many companies are trying 
to change that.  They have at least one “No Overtime Day” in a week, and it 
is often Wednesday. On “No Overtime Day,” workers are asked to leave their 
offices before 8 p.m. At 8 p.m., companies play the song “There’s Always 
Tomorrow” and turn off all the lights.

However, after the workers walk out of their offices, they don’t go home. 
Some go back later, turn on their table lamps, and keep working, and others 
find somewhere else to work until very late at night. Restaurants and coffee 
shops are busier on Wednesday evenings, and they have started selling drinks 
and meals for these workers.

But why do these people keep working?  A study shows that workers who 
work more hours often have a bigger chance to get paid more and rise higher 
in their companies.  This is true for both men and women (see Figure 2). 
Working long hours has become a way to show that people are hard-working. 
Clearly, this must be changed before the problem gets any worse.

Figure 1

Figure 2

 average 平均


--- page 9 ---
9
請翻頁繼續作答

30.	 There are four important points in the report:
a. What “No Overtime Day” is
b. Why “No Overtime Day” fails
c.	Why there is “No Overtime Day” in the country
d. How workers deal with “No Overtime Day”
How are they ordered in the report?
(A) acdb.	
(B) adcb.	
(C) cabd.	
(D) cadb.

31.	 What does this mean in the report?
(A) The way workers show they are hard-working.
(B) Restaurants and coffee shops open until very late at night.
(C) Workers do not go home when they walk out of the office.
(D) The number of workers who get paid more and rise higher in the company.

32.	 What can we learn from Figure 1 and Figure 2?
(A) Long working hours killed more women than men in 2014.
(B) Long working hours kills more and more workers every year.
(C) Men usually have a bigger chance to get paid more and rise higher when they 

work the same hours as women.
(D) Men and women have almost the same chance to get paid more and rise higher 

when they work 2,200 hours.

 order 排序


--- page 10 ---
10

(33-36)  

http://www.aab.com/news/language-and-power-756315

Language and Power: Cameroon’s Story

By Elisa Grant, 2 Oct 2017

In the modern world, being able to speak English 
is often a way to get power. However, this is not 
true for English speakers in Cameroon. To know 
why things are different in this African country, 
we need to go back one hundred years.

In 1919, Kamerun (the name of Cameroon at 
the time) was cut into two parts: one belonged 
to France, and the other belonged to the UK.  In 
1960, the French Cameroon became the Republic of Cameroun, and the UK’s 
part joined it in 1961.  The new country changed its name to the Federal 
Republic of Cameroon.  Although both French and English are Cameroon’s 
official languages, only around 20% of its people speak English.  Also, the 
government has been in French speakers’ hands since the two parts became 
one country.

For a long time, Cameroon’s English speakers have felt they are not welcome 
in their own country.  For example, it is very difficult for them to find jobs 
in the government, and they are often asked to speak French in business and 
at official events.  They have become more resentful at the government and 
decided to fight for themselves.  Since last year, the English speakers have 
tried to build their own country.  Yesterday, they said in a public meeting 
that they were not part of Cameroon anymore.  They are now a new country, 
“Ambazonia.”  When the police tried to stop the meeting, at least eight people 
were killed.

Read more

 official 官方的     government 政府 


--- page 11 ---
11
請翻頁繼續作答

33.	 Which map is most likely the map of Cameroon in 1962? 
(A)	
	
(B)

(C)	
	
(D)

34.	 What does resentful mean in the reading?
(A) Sad.	
	
(B) Angry.
(C) Careful.	
	
(D) Worried.

35.	 What does Cameroon’s government most likely think of Ambazonia? 
(A) It plans to do business with Ambazonia.
(B) It needs Ambazonia for money and help.
(C) It does not want to be part of Ambazonia.
(D) It does not agree that Ambazonia is a country.

36.	 What does Elisa Grant try to tell readers by talking about the history of Cameroon? 
(A) Why speaking English is a way to get power.
(B) Why English speakers in Cameroon have less power.
(C) Why the two parts of Cameroon became one country.
(D) Why only 20% of the people in Cameroon speak English.	

 likely 可能


--- page 12 ---
12

(37-39)

37.	 What is recommended to people who are visiting the Southend Trail? 
(A) Camping on the side trails.
(B) Biking along the side trails.
(C) Hiking one part of the trail a day.
(D) Visiting the museum in the morning.

38.	 What does lodging mean in the reading? 
(A) A meal to have.	 	
(B) A place to stay in.
(C) A time for visiting.	
(D) A way of moving around.

39.	 Kaylen will start his trip from Cove.  He plans to visit one of the old castles.  He also 

wants to go birdwatching near the river.  Which parts of the trail should Kaylen go on? 
(A) Parts 1 and 2.	
	
(B) Parts 1 and 2a.
(C) Parts 2 and 3.	
	
(D) Parts 4 and 4a.

THE SOUTHEND TRAIL has been popular with nature lovers for years. 

The 120-km trail passes beautiful lakes, crosses rivers, and goes through 
mountains and hills.  This gives bird lovers some of the best places for 
birdwatching.  The trail also takes you to the Southend Museum and to two 
famous castles, Edward Castle and 
Sloan Castle.

It’s best to plan one day for one part 
of the trail and start your hike early 
in the morning, because each part 
takes at least seven hours.  If you 
don’t want to walk, you can bike, but 
make sure you stay on the main trail, 
because the side trails are not wide 
enough for biking.

There are two types of lodging 
for visitors.  Camping is popular in 
summer, but it is only allowed on a few campgrounds (see the map).  A more 
comfortable one is to stay at a hotel in one of the towns.  You can find some 
very nice ones that also have breakfast. 

 trail 步道

 recommend 推薦


--- page 13 ---
13

(40-43)

  

40.	 (A) in fact　　	
(B) at first　　	
(C) of course　　	(D) for example

41.	 (A) take sit　　	 (B) Ms Easy　　	(C) it makes　　	 (D) me steak

42.	 (A) strange　　	 (B) difficult　　	 (C) delicious　　	(D) important

43.	 (A) more than just games	
(B) often played in public
(C) not so popular as before	
(D) not first used to learn words

試題結束

English words are made of 26 letters, and palindromes and anagrams are two kinds 
of word games about spelling.  A palindrome is a word or a sentence that reads the 
same from left to right or from right to left,    40   , “eye,” “Bob,” “my gym,” and 

“Was it a car or a cat I saw?”  An anagram of a word or words is made by putting the 
letters of the word or words in a different way.  Look at the words and their anagrams 
below.  Can you think of other possible anagrams of these words?

Anagrams are often longer words that don’t really mean anything but are fun to 
say.  Sometimes they can even mean something    42   , like when a common word, 
“restaurant,” becomes “Eat rats, run!”

Actually, palindromes and anagrams are    43   .  Palindromes can be used to learn 
mathematics and make music.  Anagrams are also a good way to hide something.  In 
history, people often hid their important studies in anagrams.  Can you think of any 
other way to use them?


